# HospitalityRevenueAnalysisPowerBI
Power BI Dashboard to analyze the revenue of an organization in hospitality industry
Domain:  Hospitality       Function: Revenue

AtliQ Grands owns multiple five-star hotels across India. They have been in the hospitality industry for the past 20 years. Due to strategic moves from other competitors and ineffective decision-making in management, AtliQ Grands are losing its market share and revenue in the luxury/business hotels category. As a strategic move, the managing director of AtliQ Grands wanted to incorporate “Business and Data Intelligence” to regain their market share and revenue. However, they do not have an in-house data analytics team to provide them with these insights.
Their revenue management team had decided to hire a 3rd party service provider to provide them with insights from their historical data.

Task:
You are a data analyst who has been provided with sample data and a mock-up dashboard to work on the following task.
Create the metrics according to the metric list.
Create a dashboard according to the mock-up provided by stakeholders.
Create relevant insights that are not provided in the metric list/mock-up dashboard.

Key Insights Observed:

The revenue generated by Atliq Exotica, Mumbai (around 117M) is the highest. This property is also having a pretty decent rating. This shows that the service provided by them is excellent making the occupancy percentage higher compared to others. 
The revenue generated by Atliq Grands, Delhi is the lowest (36M) despite the high rating. This shows that the hotel provides excellent services but revenue is impacted. So the identification of constraints that hinder the revenue growth by discussions can benefit the property. The same applies to Atliq Blue as well
There are a few hotels with low rating and low revenue. They are: Atliq Bay, Atliq Season(Mumbai), Atliq Palace, Atliq Grands, Atliq Exotica(Hyderabad), Atliq City, Atliq Bay(Delhi), Atliq Grands(Bangalore). Need to identify the root causes for them considering customer reviews and discussions with management so that the performances can be improved to treat the low revenue
The ADR and RevPar do not seem to have major differences over weekend/weekdays but occupancies are more during weekends and in the month of May. Introducing dynamic pricing strategy based on season or day type for ADR can benefit the revenue.
The realization percentage from bookings through all platforms are more or less same, so the direct booking - online/offline can try to provide discounts while checking out so that more customers prefer booking directly.
Also most bookings come through 'other', may be unknown, could be researched to find out more about this.
All properties face cancellation of nearly 25% of their bookings.
Mumbai city has the most number of properties, so naturally 40% of the total revenue comes from Mumbai City.
Elite room type is the most preferred room with maximum revenue and occupation





